this is the third video of made about
video games and the meaning of life the
question of playing video games and how
do we as adults lead a meaningful life I
got my girlfriend eating vegan noodles
on camera in some ways this is a more
casual video than the first two and in
some ways a more serious one because
this is going to be more
autobiographical I'm going to talk about
my own experience playing video games
video games in my own life maybe
especially in the last 10 years and I
think it's natural for people to have a
sort of defensive reaction if you don't
present that autobiographical material I
think there's a really natural human
tendency when people ask well who the
hell are you what do you do with your
life that's so great or who are you what
video games did you play growing up I
think there's a kind of natural tendency
react that way it doesn't mean it's good
intelligent or at faithful you know and
I think it's worth questioning for
people who've had a really defensive
reaction people will used to ask me back
when I was a scholar of Buddhism people
would ask me well what the hell's the
point why are you doing this stuff about
Buddhist philosophy and I didn't you
know respond defensive the way I thought
those were questions that are worth
asking and worth answering seriously for
someone with me if you're spending many
many hours studying an ancient language
studying a dead language studying
ancient history I think you should be
able to reflect on answer those
questions if you're studying ancient
Greek or ancient Latin you know
philosophy murad something that's better
known than studying at you Buddhism I
think you should be able to give a
meaningful answer those questions and
sit down and discuss them without
becoming too defensive or what have you
and say well these are mattress and life
these are my reasons these they'll come
looking for mmm I think everyone knows
there's a real difference in terms of
who you are as a person and the person
you become even if you waste 10 years of
your life studying ancient Greek
philosophy even if you literally look
back on that after 10 years as a waste
of your life there's a difference
between studying ancient Greek
philosophy and say playing guitar and a
band it's different why would we pretend
these things the same you can say oh
well it's a hobby it's a passion
therefore it's an and there's a
difference between playing a guitar in a
band and sitting in your room alone
playing video games these things are
different and we as adults
whether face-to-face in a coffee shop
you know someone you know in real life
rent or here on the Internet we need to
be able to talk in a reasonable way
about those differences about those
choices because they shape the world
around us and they shape who we become
as people you know no I'm not actually
gonna talk about those examples you know
I I have many many brothers my father
had a lot of kids with a lot of
different ones get pregnant and you know
one of my brothers devoted a large part
of his life to playing the guitar and
you know he basically never read a book
as an adult he and I share a lot of the
same DNA but we you know the result of
that after decades he's a totally
different human being for me whatever we
had in comment at age ten is now
unrecognizable and you know it's not
inevitable with playing the guitar but
of course he didn't play the guitar in a
vacuum he played the guitar mostly in
small smoky bars you know with cigarette
smoke and alcohol and he drank heavily
his entire life too and that changes who
you are and where you're spending your
time who you're spending your time with
and also does mentioning playing the
guitar is very different from studying
ancient Greek philosophy in that you're
probably playing the same song again and
again hundreds of times playing the same
song and with humanitarian work or
politics or philosophy you may be doing
something really new and different and
challenging every night even if you are
literally sitting at your desk alone
even if you look back on it after ten
years and think oh my god I Spy lost so
much time studying this language or
studying this philosophy or Senator so
yes there are meaningful differences and
yes there's a sense in which they're
comparable cuz we're talking we've
talked about you know just how many
hours goes into this but you can say so
we're not gonna get it any real
embarrassing details but my girlfriend
her ex-boyfriends or her boyfriend
before me he used to play video games
for about three hours a night if he was
studying ancient Greek for three hours a
night that would be different if he was
working on philosophy or politics or
humanitarian work or some as I know
cancer research whatever I'm you know
anything any any passion it's different
I mean is it the same it's the same in
that it's three hours
every other way there are really deep
meaningful differences in the process
and in the product of who you are after
doing that for six months or six years
or ten years whenever you look back and
do an evaluation so we don't
I mean don't pretend there's no point in
coming at me on the internet as people
will I mean inevitably and saying well
who are you to judge playing video games
is the same as watching movies or
playing video games that the same as
doing cancer research or closely yeah
it's different yeah yeah I will just say
that was a reduction when I first met I
mentioned in the second video though but
I am NOT addressing this just a video
game addiction I don't think your
ex-boyfriend was an addict he had you
know he had a normal job he drove a car
he had a girlfriend you know he he was a
normal productive member of society and
three hours a night in our society is
not considered an addiction I can say
it's what some of my brothers do none of
my brothers are considered alcoholics in
Canadian Canadian Society none of them
are considered alcoholics in in British
society you know but the the level of
drinking you know can be you can be
spending three hours a night drinking
alcohol and in our society you're not
considered now for me subjectively I
look at those brothers of mine and I
might do you wasted all your
intellectual potential you wasted all
your potential period sitting around
drinking alcohol that's my perspective
but they're not alcoholics and likewise
I mean your your ex-boyfriend he's not
an addict he's not one of the we was
looking at the other day one example of
guy who who for many years was playing
ten hours a day and then he went up to
15 hours a day he had just one year at
that level of 15 hours a day playing
video games and he kept he was in he was
in formal competitions right so I mean
that that is when you're talking about
video game addiction and video game
obsession but those three hours a night
that's exactly the time when you could
be working on anything - so this is a
really broad topic it's a deep topic and
to some extent I think it's inevitable
if I if I just present myself with no
autobiographical I should not talk about
my own history playing video games there
is the sense of well who are you to
speak and that's I'm used to that I had
that kind of reaction when I'm starting
with video games on tumblr you know on a
written blog before YouTube so you kick
the
I've got this comment on patreon this is
from a patreon supporter someone who in
some sense as a fan of my channel you
know pays a dollar a month to support we
do this channel so Richard wrote the
following
Richard writes to me quote you seem to
be under the misapprehension that people
are supposed to be doing something that
you judge to be meaningful and that
anybody not meeting that standard is
wasting their lives okay I'll read the
next sentence is it but let's let's just
know that so he is saying that I am
under the misapprehension that people
are supposed to be doing something that
you judged me for and in part of my
reply I gave him a very short reply and
I also offered to have email with him
further if he wants to get in touch to
me and know no more about me no it's not
a misapprehension it's an ethical claim
and that's the kind of claim we make in
knowing people face to face whether it's
your brother or your coworker or a
friend or a colleague all the time we
say to people look this is what I
consider a meaningful life this is what
I consider a standard of adequacy or
excellence or this is something I think
this is something I think you should be
aspiring to and if you fall short of it
I'm gonna tell you I'm disappointed in
you that's what we do with people we
love people we care about in real life
all the time and I think we talked about
this in veganism and so on in veganism
you know there's a lot of kind of agony
within the movement about do you or do
you not walk up to complete strangers
and like testify you're walking to
somebody you don't know it all would be
like hey have I told you about our Lord
and Savior or veganism you know and I
don't I don't do that
I've really said you know whether or not
you you come out of the closet and tell
somebody how much meaning does it means
to you has a lot to do with how much you
respect them how much you care about
them you know so at my university in
Canada I did talk about veganism with
some professors not all of them sit down
at every professor ad it'd be like look
man you got you got a gonna know about
these pigs in the slaughterhouse they're
like look man you got to know what these
rates of heart attacks you know it
really was kind of a litmus test for how
much I care about you if I tell you
about this thing that so many from my
life and it's also reciprocally when
they asked me about it was kind of a
litmus test for how much they cared
about me
because I did have professors who were
they raised it they wanted to know about
me and my life in that way
ethically and politically and also even
nutritionally in terms of fitness I
wasn't I wasn't in that great shape but
I was in better shape my professors a
lot more si me so there's a question
about caring but yeah it's not uh it's
not an indication of my contempt for you
that I'm willing to say hey I care about
you you can be doing better and you
ought to be doing better
I claim not about what is but a claim
about what ought to be it shows that I
that I care about you and again I can
even say that within my own mother my
own brothers I have so many brothers my
father had so many kids you know if I
just regard one of their brothers as a
worthless alcoholic worthless drug
addicts I'm not gonna bother talking any
of that stuff but in some cases I'm my
brother's you sit there and look at them
and be like look man you're capable I
know I know you can do better than this
and I really think I really think you
should so I look again I'm not pushing
come but I know I know you have circle
of friends you don't have so many
brothers and sisters but you know I know
that's that's how you look around and
you know sometimes you sometimes you
make that bet assumes you don't and in
some ways the Internet is strange
because I come here and talk on YouTube
as the if I'm sitting down with you in a
cafe as if we're meeting in a Starbucks
or something and you the audience are to
some extent complete strangers and you
may feel offended that way you may say
who are you to impose on me your idea of
what's a meaningful life that's exactly
what I'm doing
so in a sense he's right I am sitting
here and telling you this is what I
think is a meaningful life this is what
I think is the meaning of life and if
you're falling short of it I want to sit
here and ever have a meaningful
conversation but I want to I want to you
know reflect on your sure but I mean
it's a big question like you know in
America there's the ambition to make
money I mean I know your parents did
said that tells you well make sure you
pick a career path that pays more than
how to
but you know what it means to have other
ambitions ambitions that fill your life
with meaning and purpose and that really
motivates you motivate you in a profound
sense that's not just money I think
that's something in our culture I mean
where we grew up
southern Ontario and the adjacent part
of the northern United States when we
did actually grow up in in the same area
that's certainly not something that was
talked about you know around me yeah and
again you know maybe it is where you
come from you know but I mean if
anything you know I only found that when
I started reading ancient philosophy
when I was reading ancient philosophy I
saw men they're all men and there's
basically no basically no female voices
in these texts but these were men
sitting down about life and death and
what are you gonna do with the next 10
years it might be the last 10 years you
got you know people were dying of you
know dying of diseases we can cure today
all the time apart from dying of war on
the starvation and all these things and
and you know these really kind of Bronze
Age values about having an ambition to
be to be a good man nobody talked about
that when I was when I was growing up
you know neither within I mean I was
raised in an anti-religious household
but I was also exposed to both
Christianity and Judaism I mean both
both Christianity of Judaism of those
growing up seemed to be mostly about
forgiveness and acceptance for people's
mediocrity and even like their their
evil you know anyway oh you know like
you know you just gotta do anyway and I
grew up for example I grew up in the era
of the the truth and reconciliation
process in South Africa and then again
it was all about me do mediocrity and
forgiveness wasn't about justice didn't
have a justice you know what I mean so
it was really when I saw though that
ancient philosophy there was it go like
here are here are people who are really
willing to say openly hey that's not
good enough you know like try for
greatness try for excellence and maybe
if you fail maybe you're gonna learn
more out of that failing out of trying
for something impossible an excellent
you know and maybe failing repeatedly
setting goals maybe that's maybe that's
worth philosophizing about maybe that's
really worth thinking about as opposed
to a life of ease and comfort and
mediocrity whether whether you're
earning $100,000 a year or not because
you can learn a lot of money that way
yeah
yeah I totally understand this comment
you know people don't want to be
challenged what is meaningful to them
and I just recently I told you I think
that was what you were referencing but I
had a best friend and in high school she
stopped talking to me and I didn't
really know why until years later she
said that she felt that I was too
judgmental and then I would judge her
for having gotten into drugs alcohol and
sex I guess so I did not know that but
apparently I gave off that vibe that she
just didn't want to be judged by me or
she didn't want somebody to tell her
that what she was doing was not a good
path for her but you know I I I don't
feel the same way like I want somebody
like I want people in my life that do
care enough to really challenge me and I
think I mean again I don't make you look
sometimes people are just jerks and
there's nothing more to say about it but
I think even if you are spending your
time doing humanitarian work or doing
working on philosophy or politics one of
these many examples the things that get
through worthwhile people are gonna
challenge you because of other things
when I was younger and I was doing that
stuff people would basically say why
aren't you just trying to earn as much
money as possible why aren't you playing
the stock market yeah and sometimes in a
really friendly way
I mean if sometimes that people will
take me aside and say cuz they talk to
me but economics haven't very good
education economics fundamentals of
economics you know and sometimes I'd be
talking about what was going on
economically people say to me look you
could make a fortune you know you're
you're smart you're Jewish you
understand that the stock market works
you understand that the property market
works you know within the conversation
said what you know why you wasting your
time with humanitarian and political and
philosophical stuff why
and again it's maybe sometimes
somebody's pitch be mature but even if
you're doing something you really do
believe in as meaningful I think you
still have these conversations but yes
it's different it's not the same as
making excuses for playing video games
or even making excuses for playing the
guitar in a smoky bar you know music or
something I think I think we all have to
answer those questions again and again
and you know it's different as life goes
on maybe playing the guitar meant one
thing in your life when you're 15 and
then it's different when you're 25 and
then it's different when you're 35 right
you've got to think about that as as
life goes on
it's like you said playing in a smoky
bar versus trying to learn new music and
actually challenge yourself or writing
new instruments you know like that can
be a valuable use of your time but if
you're mostly trying to you know sure
meet meet hot chicks at the bar I think
I I'm including the example Muse because
I think it's it's a it's an intermediate
example and I don't think playing music
is the it's not the same as playing
video games but it still raises these
questions whereas you know I've said I
think that playing billiards playing
snooker which for many people to come as
there are people who play snooker eight
hours a day you know play it played
these kinds of table games or playing
card games it can be really the same as
video games yeah we have to cause when
you look back at that time anyway so the
end of the the comment from from Richard
he says where did you get such a silly
idea where did I get the idea that
people should be doing something
meaningful with 5s and then I get to
judge what's meaningful we all get to
judge with meaningful we're all on the
internet right now and we're all sitting
around in coffee shops we're all
engaging in this judgment and reflection
and the question what is meaningful in
life what is a meaningful life and
that's a question worth ask yourself
again and again so he asks where did he
get such a silly idea and is that idea
at the core of what's driving your
permanent student lifestyle so that
that's kind of a topic for another video
my experience with university education
which is almost entirely negative and
why I've spent as many years in and out
of universities that have I have talked
about in the past but we'll definitely
talk about it again
but I don't you know I don't
particularly endorse a permanent student
lifestyle no no don't worry about your
life you know but um and also you're not
doing it to find a meaningful career
like you you said you've expressly told
me that like at this point you're not
looking for something that is you know
something that brings me I'm certainly
not university looking for some of that
isn't there I know what the university
system is and what it isn't yeah like I
think what he's referencing is how some
students you know they continue getting
a masters or a PhD and something that's
right look here here here on YouTube I
talked a lot about research and the
majority of my research was not in any
university it was outside of University
but it's true that may make it seem like
my whole life is about university based
education study and it's not I don't
spend very much time you aren't YouTube
talking about my formal career you know
we can like right now we can talk I
teach classes at a university I don't
talk about that much in the past I have
experience you know presenting formal
lectures to boardrooms of people in a
corporate setting like multi-millionaire
multi millionaires in a corporation in
Hong Kong on the top floor of this sky
script unthe at you know which it's
interesting in its way I could talk
about that I've presented to boardroom
where everyone was a representative of
the United States government European
Union governments plural and the said to
EU itself international humanitarian
agencies no when I was a kid I gave
presentations in that kind of context
it's like my work life you know in that
sense and you know my earning money life
I don't talk about on YouTube that much
why this comes back to the meaning of
life because the research I've done the
more scholarly stuff have done is more
meaningful to me and even the stuff I've
been raising my daughter you know like
my situation with my divorce and my
daughter and going to Cuba that's more
maybe I guess it gets talked about more
here but sure I do also have a
professional side to my life which I'm
not no see though it's not like I'm a
fuse to talk about it on YouTube but
sure I think it's also reflects this
underlying question of what's meaningful
what's important in your life that
that's that's not the bulk of what we
what we talk about here on here on
YouTube okay so look video games in my
life and your life neither of us were
ever video game addicts but I can say
you know video games meant different
things at different points in my life
and some would have regrets about it
some of it I don't uh let's start with
just talking about the last couple of
years like the last five years yeah
I have played almost zero video games
unless I'm gonna include our romance cuz
video games are a small component of we
have played four games a little bit so
I'll get to that but you know before I
move to China so it's living in in
Victoria that's several years ago I
bought a new Mac it's actually the other
Mac it's not the
but I bought a new computer and you guys
may not know this but now with Mac the
first time you open any program it gives
you this stupid security warning
it's like warning this computer could
contain this this this program could
contain a virus the damages your
computer level so the first time you
open any program you get this in so when
you buy a new Mac you get that message
like 20 times
so for about two years I didn't play any
video game on my hard drive at all I
know on that Mac because then I did
start to play for a couple of minutes
and when I opened those video games I
got that warning I was like how can I be
getting this warning I bought this
computer like two years ago so I hadn't
I had him over them so actually I
started playing video games really
briefly I'll describe what I played
after about to use with my absolutely
zero because I had some really annoying
loading pauses and file processing
pauses so I'd be in the situation where
my computer was like a two-minute delay
or five minute delay and I didn't want
to open a textbook and get involved with
something else so I started playing the
original space invaders which believe me
you can play for about two minutes I
mean it's a really simple game with two
minutes is a long time to play space
invaders and some other really simple
really classic games so within the last
couple of years that was all I played
and even then not really there was this
big gap or I didn't play video games at
all so you know and that was literally
while waiting for my computer to load or
export something or convert something
just a couple of minutes here and there
when Melissa I began our romance one of
the surprises was that she really grew
up playing a lot of the same video games
I did and she's much younger than me so
she a she grew up with a lot of classic
video games Sega Genesis and Nintendo 64
and idea so when we first met yeah but
Jenna basically from a generation before
yeah you didn't grow up with yeah so
when we first got together that was just
kind of a surprise and a funny thing and
we played a couple of Sega Genesis
Classic so I played toejam in a role for
the first time in 20 years you know game
I played as a child we played maybe for
two hours I mean it's not the total it
may be less than she did it felt like a
long time with any of these things like
most of these video games
amazingly boring and it's like you know
like five minutes feels like a long time
for me
so now as an adult that's basically the
only role few games play in my life but
I want to mention a couple of other
things in the last ten years one I have
a daughter of a four-year-old daughter
and I did a lot of research on video
games for her and because I was
concerned about buying video games for
her in her future with video games and
I'm sure it's something I'm gonna
discuss with her or not
once not 10 times about a hundred times
I'm sure as she grows up video games are
really gonna be an issue so I wanted to
be Oklahoma and I have bought her video
games and I have played video games with
her and I played video games in a sense
for her where I was figuring out what to
buy for her what what was appropriate
you know for a four-year-old that kind
of thing so that's another roll of
idioms month that's not going away I
think that's that's gonna be with me um
you know for the next 20 years whatever
you know of raising my daughter so you
know in that sense I think people might
say I'm a Margaret on video games so
that I'm not trying to raise my kid with
no no awareness of video games or or not
knowing what they are know so I you can
you can jump in anytime III as a child
so I was never a video game addict but I
have seen compulsive video game playing
up close and I emphasized in my earlier
video that you know that your own
professors the people you look up to
police officers all kinds of grown
adults either still play video games
compulsively or it's something they
struggle with or if not if you're
talking to grown adults who don't play
video so it's a choice what they've
chosen to quit video games they've
reached a breaking point so you know
with each item people 40 years old 50
years old this is a mass phenomenon and
it's much much more common than dealing
with cocaine or alcohol basically
everyone who has access to electricity
in the Western world has made a decision
even if they didn't struggle to quit
even if they were never an addict
they've thought am I gonna play video
games or not even if the question is or
not yeah yeah well I guess I can just
say
why I grew up playing older video games
because my brothers were seven and five
years older than me and also my parents
were pretty cheap they didn't want to
buy like the newest systems so and I
have a lot of fond memories of playing
video games with my brothers as a kid so
you know that's that's positive in one
way and also I can see it being kind of
sad in another way because you know I
could have been marie's of playing
outside with more and more memories of
actually being outside and doing
something fun with them like active
rather than playing video games and I
remember my grandma one time was
watching us and she got really upset
that we were playing video games for so
much of the day yeah you know as a kid
is a kid you just have so much time and
it is easy to pass the time with video
games but um so yeah as a teenager I
played like again it was really just
older stuff it was like once my brothers
went off to college I inherited their
gaming systems so it was like the
original Xbox some of those games but
yeah not as much as I did when I was a
kid and then in college even less so I
would say in college I you know there
were times when I would play a phone
game a phone video game with my
ex-boyfriend because he played it I know
you don't I know you just got a phone
recently I didn't own a mobile phone at
all till age 36 or 37 but actually the
one game that I started playing with him
was The Simpsons game where you like
yeah really it's really bad it's a waste
of your time but like it's kind of that
same situation you can play it for like
two minutes well something's loading
like while you while you're waiting for
food takeout or something like you know
it's it's not something that I spent a
lot of time on but yeah I think it's
just the wind old throughout my life the
past couple years I haven't been playing
much at all so I just say you know why
it is I mean it is emotionally
significant for me I really had a
turning point in my show
where I started to to bitterly regret
playing video games you know I still was
a child but where I realized the
significance of the situation I was in
my parents were both businesspeople they
had very little time to spend with us
and when they were at home you know they
were often working at home so you know
they'd have their portable computers
there when I was a little kid the
portable computer like it was as big as
the whole table we had huge portable
computers and as a little kid and they
got smaller and smaller but they'd have
their portable computer on the dining
room table so even if they were at home
they were actively you know typing and
working and during dinner they'd both be
incredibly stressed out and talking
about work and my parents were also
violent I was beaten throughout my
childhood most time freezes that nothing
to do with me like just like my mother
would literally hang up the phone after
having an angry business call with a
cold disputing business she would beat
me just to take out her frustrations in
that phone call so nothing to do with my
behavior like it's not I spilled
something you know I mean so I was in
this kind of violent taciturn in some
ways uncommunicative home where my
parents you know preoccupation with
their business which is understandable
really meant that for most the hours of
the day it was just a question of
warehousing me it was just a question of
wasting my time in a way that didn't
require parental supervision
so I mean almost anything else we lived
in downtown Toronto you know he requires
some level of parental supervision
including often just driving the kid
there like you know even some activity
the parent is to drive the kid there and
then pick them up afterwards my parents
basically never did that like I remember
my childhood really briefly I enrolled
in karate lessons like I think I'm worth
like for karate lessons but my parents
couldn't do it they couldn't drive me to
karate man which I sympathize with like
you know I can imagine as a parent like
you know in the future I may be so busy
was look I can't do this we got you no
no I would respond by trying to find
some other way to be a concurrent you
know what I mean but that was actually a
really awful realization which was you
know people are just waiting for me to
physically get older and between now and
then this is just about wasting my time
and in a series of really crushing
realizations in terms of my own wasted
potential and you know the fact that I
had really squandered years of when I
could have been learning something like
even if it's literally like learning how
to climb a rope you know I mean like you
know it's literally like you know they
are like play activities where you learn
something and instead I was learning
nothing but I memorized every level in
zillion for the Sega Master System I
memorized the map and then I remember
years later so I could and I didn't play
the game for several years but I was
still a child but I remember five years
later putting it in and discovering to
my horror I still had the whole game
memorized right yeah yeah yeah that's
that's really kind of scary you know
I'll remember how to do the Super Mario
games and it's like man I could have
been right reading like language like
learning Japanese or something I could
have been learning how to shoot a bow
and arrow there's a part of my brain
that is taken up with you so I just
mentioned also you know as an
intellectual I didn't I didn't develop
early a lot of people thought I was
brilliant as a kid but I grew up
ignorant and I grew up and again this
connects to videogames believe me that's
coming to Venice but I grew up with the
absolute assumption that World War three
was coming and give that's the era I
grew up in that there was a war whose
gonna be more brutal and enormous than
World War two between Russia and the
United States of America coming and that
I was gonna be on the Russian side
because my parents were communists and
in video games and in a couple of
cartoons not many couple versions I
watched because you know I did see a lot
of video games were about that imaginary
world war three or they were about the
future after a nuclear war very common
science that fiction things done so I
saw this in videogames I saw this on the
news I saw this in newspapers this
wasn't just some crazy idea of my
parents put in my head this was like I
saw in the real world all around me when
I was growing up so there was also a
sense of my own education being
worthless because my education was based
on a bourgeois delusion that the society
was gonna last and World War three was
coming and that was that was my future
and I really sat there and imagined as a
kid to what extent world
three was gonna resemble World War two
like you know men in in cloth uniforms
and to what extent it was gonna resemble
what I saw in video games and cartoons
like a men in spacesuits you know I mean
I really thought about that stuff and
you know was there gonna have to have a
gas mask on the whole time you know
because of the use of gas and you know
chemical weapons and nuclear weapons but
that was also part of the part conics it
was I was growing up in and then you
know eventually really in the 1990s you
know having the realization that my
whole attitude towards education and
video games now aspera my time as Heath
was was in some ways weirdly at a
touching reality but some ways were
really connected to the hysteria that
that that defined the mainstream culture
all around me I mean I I didn't grow up
in a cult they really you know what what
I saw on the front page of the newspaper
as a child you don't really read the
newspapers yup but you see the newspaper
and you see the news on the nightly news
all the time seen in the newscaster only
has a picture above his shoulder on
old-fashioned news there's a picture of
an atom bomb exploding you know and the
news would be you know today the latest
nuclear disarmament talks you know but
all the time you just saw the picture of
of world war three coming and as a kid
you know you're not understanding the
nuances of what the Tigers mean you get
the message World War three is coming
and that was what my video games often
in some in some sense even if it's just
symbolically just in that science
fiction sense that's that's what they
were about but sure it was it was a
crushing realization both about video
games and even about transport to and
from school I mentioned this to you
recently when I realized one patreon
supporter said the pie chart of how many
hours of the day where I realized my
time was precious and I had to I had to
take responsibility for my own education
because nobody in the school was gonna
teach me my parents weren't going
to teach me I figured my parents
are basically insane like ideological
extremists that my parents were not
normal politically not at all and you
know I had to teach myself about
politics and economics or I was never
gonna understand of the world worked you
know I had to take this burden on myself
and then obviously rejecting videogames
and also rejecting stuff like comic
books now it wasn't a huge comic but you
know like most oh I did read some home
but in rejecting that and saying oh my
god I don't take it on my own show
to become some kind of well-informed
person I'm never gonna know nothing
because my teachers are full of my
parents are I have no other
access to information and I started
going to the library
so obviously that could be the start of
a whole longer video but how I started
how I started educating myself but the
fundamental thing I had to realize was
nobody's responsible to me and I wish
someone was it's not like nobody can be
responsible but me but the situation I
was in nobody else was gonna be
responsible if I didn't take on that
burden nobody else would and that did
lead to me reading Aristotle and
Socrates and Thucydides and you know
ancient Greek and Latin sources as well
as you know as said mentioned you don't
try and get education in modern
economics because I was surrounded by
left-wing people who kind of worshiped
economics but had but I had no real
understanding of it okay so obviously
told whole different topic there but
we're sticking on on video games the
autobiographical you know all right so I
[Music]
for me this is not about video game
addiction we mentioned that Melissa's
ex-boyfriend would play video games for
three hours a day and that shaped his
whole life and what he did do and what
he didn't do I wanted to include that my
ex-wife she also have many points during
a relationship played video games
compulsively and my ex-wife's a very
respectable person in many ways she has
a PhD she does research as meaningful
things that are left but I remember what
a weird position that put me in because
I like I'd have to stand there and say
look do you want me to force you to stop
playing video games like you want me to
like take the computer away from you no
I mean like look what what do you want
me to do like you know this is a problem
and I mentions four people in no
vidiians watching this the video games
she was playing compulsively were really
simple one of them was nethack nethack
which is a classic game I introduced her
to just in conversations about where she
and I talked about what video games did
I play as a as a child then I showed her
this really primitive game nethack
nethack has no graphics it just has
letters and boxes on the screen but it
is it is a game that people play for
hours and hours if you google it right
now there are people who've written
about how they
like for 200 hours only it is one of
those games people get engrossed in and
another one was spelunky spelunky like
if you just look at it on the surface
it's similar to Super Mario Brothers
like you know you jump around you know
from thing to thing and spelunky was one
of those teams that had a clock in it
where every time you started up and quit
it told you how many hours in total
you've been playing and you know they
were I think different times in her life
you know where she was whether it was
due to escapism or to ever be like look
you know and you know I'd be doing other
things but you know like whatever I'd do
some work where I'd go do food shopping
and come back and I'd have to say to her
look like it's it's been three hours
like you know you said you were gonna do
this this in this today so that's also
and again this is not remotely addiction
my ex-wife was never a videogame addict
but I can just say it was a problem and
how it was really hard for me to address
that with you and your ex-boyfriend did
you ever address it or was it just built
into the relationship where was an
assumption that he was going to play
video games for like three hours a day
in a neighborhood you know we liked it
like it wasn't negotiable you know he
may look a lot of things to Rosie but
like that like if someone's already a
cigarette smoker when you start the
relationship they sometimes are in
positions they look I smoke cigarettes
and you met me I'm gonna you know first
when we first were dating I was in
college and he was about an hour drive
away like he lived an hour drive away so
we would see each other only on the
weekends and during the week he could
just you know play a video games as much
as he wanted so in the last few years
that we were together that we lived
together um he worked a job where he got
off work at like 11:00 and that's when I
had to go to sleep so after that like he
would just stay up until like 3:00 or
4:00 in the morning playing video games
and like you know I was asleep so it
really wasn't that big of a deal right
um I guess on the weekends you know like
I would rather be like studying or just
you know I'd be doing something else
while he was playing video games so yeah
it was it was just it wasn't something
that I ever I didn't you know I didn't
really criticize him for doing one of
the late motifs in my life you know I
say you know worrying is underrated you
and I you know we go for a long walks
together
last couple days and a number of Louis
and very often what we're talking about
during those long walks
you know we're worrying about the future
you know thinking about should we do
this in the future should have what's
what's gonna be like and you know people
think worrying is a bad thing that
people think worrying means you're
unhappy but worrying is a productive
thing to do with your mind and I would
not trade that worrying time for video
games you know I mean if if worrying is
misery I don't want to trade that for a
kind of you know shallow happiness I
think that's really worth well no
obvious that's not you know we also just
do fun things in the relationship but
you know if I think about the number of
hours we spend worrying about the future
and talking through different options
and scenarios that is a significant
amount of time and it's not again I
think it's a false optic to think that
life is about enjoyment and happiness
you know that's one aspect of life but
there's a lot of worrying and research
and aspiration and ambition and even
just within this relationship I think
the time we spend worrying and you know
going on those walks together is is
meaningful and we wouldn't have that
time if either one of us was was playing
video games for three hours a day or or
maybe even one hour a day you know
sometimes you know as soon as we asked
if we're gonna go take a walk there's a
there's a mountain we go up here if
we're gonna go on a hike up the mountain
it's like well that's gonna be over an
hour you know can we can we fit in or
not so those are those are the questions
on that you don't on that basic level
that everyone has to ask there's a legal
principle I'm not gonna try to say it in
Latin but it normally is quoted in Latin
the abuse of a thing has no implications
for the proper use of a thing and even
if you've never heard that legal points
before maybe you can guess why we have
that so you know the fact that some
people are drunk drivers doesn't mean
that you should take away the right to
drive from everyone or something you
know the fact that there's a problem
with abusing a principle or right of
freedom or even a Power has no
implication for the proper use of things
so obviously one of the most extreme
debates but this is something like gun
control the way the fact that even if
ninety percent of people are using guns
improperly or illegally well what about
the ten percent who owned them and use
for in some strictly legal sense what
have you what's the implication for for
the proper use of a thing and the focus
on video game addiction I think this is
the problem is that's very easy to look
at that say okay there's a small number
of people who are video game addicts in
the same way this small number of people
or gambling addicts but that doesn't
have any implication for people who are
responsible gamblers or people who are
who are moderate video game players and
I think what I'm trying to emphasize
here is that my overall approach to this
it's not about addiction it's not about
the abuse of video games you know it's
about the use period now you can say
that was something like steroids like
are you just criticizing steroid abuse
you know excessive use of steroids as
opposed to no being opposed in principle
to any use whatsoever you could say the
same about cocaine or alcohol I I don't
just oppose alcoholism I oppose even
moderate how Gleason I'm completely I
drink absolutely zero alcohol so I'm you
know these are differences that can slip
away in language and the way these these
things are phrased so I was I was
tempted in this video tell a story of
one young woman I knew to destroyed her
life with with video game addiction and
it's you know it's kind of a long story
but long story short I got because I met
had this long serious conversation when
I got to kind of see the world from her
eyes and how you know her youth you know
the critical years of her life when she
should have been in high school and in
university that would have determined
her direction in life one sec baby let's
we'll wrap it up now you know were
squandered through video game addiction
but I'm not gonna cover that this video
for this reason that I mean again this
is a little bit more of an envoy
graphical approach but this is not about
video game addiction or excessive video
game use it's about any video game use
as an adult and as I think I've already
said at length the question is you know
what is the meaningful life how are we
gonna live meaningful lives what is the
meaning of life and I don't even think
it's debated whenever we're talking
about a game a game of cards a game of
billiards game video games anything that
a game I think actually none of the
people engaged in the debate would even
take the position that this is the
meaning of life
I think whatever the meaning of life is
for you to a very large extent
subjective you know it's not this you
know it's not a game you know that the
meaning of life is about something real
or the relentless pursuit of something
real even if you're a surrealist painter
you know that's what you're wrestling
with as long as painting is not a game
you know that's I mean that's the
difference
some people do just paint as a pastime
or hobby but as soon as it's not a game
that's what it gets real that's when it
becomes part of you mean flip that's
when it comes to struggle which may
indeed involve agony and disappointment
and tragedy and what have you but that's
interest that's I think that's even
built into our notion of what a game is
people can defend it as a
self-indulgence as a pleasure as
something that makes them happy but I
don't see them defending it as something
meaningful as something aspirational or
as something ambitious